# Data-science-projects


## Contents

- ### Machine Learning

	- [Predicting Boston Housing Prices]: A model to predict the value of a given house in the Boston real estate market using various statistical analysis tools. Identified the best price that a client can sell their house utilizing machine learning.
	- [Unsupervised Learning: Creating Customer Segments]: Analyzing a dataset containing data on various customers' annual spending amounts (reported in monetary units) of diverse product categories for discovering internal structure, patterns and knowledge.
	- [Reinforcement Learning: Training a Smartcab to Drive]: Creating an optimized Q-Learning driving agent that will navigate a Smartcab through its environment towards a goal.
	- [Deep Learning: Digit Sequence Recognition using CNNs]:  Designing and implementing a Convolutional Neural Network that learns to recognize sequences of digits using synthetic data generated by concatenating images from MNIST.

	_Tools: scikit-learn, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib, Pygame_ 

- ### Natural Language Processing

	- [Disaster Message Classifier]: A multilabel classification model to predict the categories of a disaster message. Includes an ETL pipeline for data processing, a ML pipeline to train the model, and a web app, with visualizations, where the model can be used to classify messages. _Tools: NLTK, Scikit-learn, XGBoost, Flask, Plotly_

	- [3-way Sentiment Analysis for Tweets]: 3-way polarity (positive, negative, neutral) classification system for tweets, without using NLTK's sentiment analysis engine. 

	- [Cross language Information Retrieval]: Cross language information retrieval system (CLIR) which, given a query in German, searches text documents written in English.


	_Tools: NLTK, scikit_

- ### Micro Projects: 

	- __Python__
		- [ML with Logistic Regression]: Using Logistic Regression to predict whether an internet user clicked an ad or not.
		- [ML with K Nearest Neighbours]: Using KNN to classify instances from a fake dataset into two target classes, while choosing the best value for K using the elbow method.
		- [ML with Decision Trees and Random Forests]: Using Decision Trees and Random Forests to predict whether a lender will pay their loan back. Uses publically available data from LendingClub.com
		- [Movie Recommendations using Recommender Systems]: A micro project to build a recommendation system that makes movie recommendations based on user review similarities. 

	
